[DOCS-553] DogStatsD mapper (#6600)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/developers/dogstatsd/dogstatsd_mapper.md

2. Add a [mapping rule configuration block](#mapping-rule) under the `dogstatsd_mapper_profiles` parameter.

## Mapping rule

A mapping rule block have the following layout:

```yaml
dogstatsd_mapper_profiles:
    - name: '<PROFILE_NAME>'
      prefix: '<PROFILE_PREFIX>'
      mappings:
          - match: '<METRIC_TO_MATCH>'
            match_type: '<MATCH_TYPE>'
            name: '<MAPPED_METRIC_NAME>'
            tags:
                '<TAG_KEY>': '<TAG_VALUE_TO_EXPAND>'
```

With the following placeholders:

| Placeholder             |  Definition                                                                                                                               |
| ----------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
|  `<PROFILE_NAME>`       | A name to give to your mapping rule profile.                                                                                              |
| `<PROFILE_PREFIX>`      | The metric name prefix associated to this profile.                                                                                        |

> | `<METRIC_TO_MATCH>`     | The metric name to match. [Wildcard](#wildcard-match-pattern) or [Regex](#regex-match-pattern) are supported.                             |

Reviewer: `METRIC_TO_MATCH` is optional, it defaults to wildcard.

| `<MATCH_TYPE>`          | The type of match to apply to the `<METRIC_TO_MATCH>`. Either [`wildcard`](#wildcard-match-pattern) or [`regex`](#regex-match-pattern)    |
| `<MAPPED_METRIC_NAME>`  | The new metric name to send to Datadog with the tags defined in the same group.                                                           |
| `<TAG_KEY>`             | The Tag key to associate to the tags collected.                                                                                           |
| `<TAG_VALUE_TO_EXPAND>` | The tags collected from the `<MATCH_TYPE>` to inline.                                                                                     |

## Wildcard Match Pattern

> The wildcard match pattern matches dot-separated metric names using `*` as wildcard. The metric name must follow the [metrics naming convention][2] for the pattern to work.

Reviewer: Actually, it's a bit more strict than that. Only alphanumeric, `.` and `_` are allowed. 

https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/blob/460ad2c13a7e990ec65660f9dc3aec574c0d6d78/pkg/dogstatsd/mapper/mapper.go#L18

Groups extracted can then be expanded with the `$n` format e.g. `$1`, `$2`, `$3`... or the `${n}` format e.g. `${1}`, `${2}`, `${3}`, ...

For instance, if you have the metric `custom_metric.value_1.value_2` with the following mapping group configuration:

```yaml
dogstatsd_mapper_profiles:
  - name: my_custom_metric_profile
    prefix: custom_metric
    mappings:
      - match: 'custom_metric.*'
        match_type: wildcard
        name: custom_metric
        tags:
          tag_key_1: '$1'
          tag_key_2: '$2'
```

It would send the metric `custom_metric` to Datadog with the tags `tag_key_1:value_1` and `tag_key_2:value_2`.

> **Note**: If the incoming metric have already a tag key that matches one defined in the mapping group, no mapping is applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: If the incoming metric have already tags, no mapping is applied.
```

Reviewer: ^ that match more actual impl.

> **Note**: If the incoming metric have already a tag key that matches one defined in the mapping group, no mapping is applied.

Reviewer: This not apply to both wildcard and regex type.

## Regex Match Pattern

The regex match pattern matches metric names using regex patterns. Compared to the wildcard match pattern, it allows to define captured groups that contain `.`.
Groups extracted can then be expanded with the `$n` format e.g. `$1`, `$2`, `$3`... or the `${n}` format e.g. `${1}`, `${2}`, `${3}`, ...

For instance, if you have the metric `custom_metric.value_1.value.with.dots._2` with the following mapping group configuration:

```yaml
dogstatsd_mapper_profiles:
    - name: my_custom_metric_profile
      prefix: custom_metric
      mappings:
          - match: 'custom_metric\.([\w_]+)\.(.+)'
            match_type: regex
            name: custom_metric
            tags:
                tag_key_1: '$1'
                tag_key_2: '$2'
```

It would send the metric `custom_metric` to Datadog with the tags `tag_key_1:value_1` and `tag_key_2:value.with.dots._2`.

> ## Catched group in metric name

Reviewer: It seems the title  is not right, this is not related to `cache`.

---
title: DogStatsD Mapper
kind: documentation
description: Convert parts of statsd metric names to tags using mapping rules in DogStatsD.
further_reading:
    - link: 'developers/dogstatsd'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Introduction to DogStatsD'
    - link: 'developers/libraries'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Official and Community created API and DogStatsD client libraries'
    - link: 'https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/tree/master/pkg/dogstatsd'
      tag: 'GitHub'
      text: 'DogStatsD source code'
---

With Agent v7.17+, the DogStatsD Mapper feature allows you to convert parts of a metric name submitted to DogStatsD to tags using mapping rules with wildcard and regex patterns. For example it allows you to transform the metric:

-   `airflow.job.duration.<JOB_TYPE>.<JOB_NAME>`

into the metric `airflow.job.duration` with two associated tags:

-   `job_type:<JOB_TYPE>`
-   `job_name:<JOB_NAME>`.

To create a mapping rule:

1. [Open your `datadog.yaml` file][1].
2. Add a [mapping rule configuration block](#mapping-rule-configuration) under the `dogstatsd_mapper_profiles` parameter.

## Mapping rule configuration

> A mapping rule block have the following layout:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A mapping rule block has the following layout:
```

```yaml
dogstatsd_mapper_profiles:
    - name: '<PROFILE_NAME>'
      prefix: '<PROFILE_PREFIX>'
      mappings:
          - match: '<METRIC_TO_MATCH>'
            match_type: '<MATCH_TYPE>'
            name: '<MAPPED_METRIC_NAME>'
            tags:
                '<TAG_KEY>': '<TAG_VALUE_TO_EXPAND>'
```

> With the following placeholders:

Reviewer: I think it might worth indicating for all fields what's required and what's optional. See https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/pull/4471/files#diff-99e505a5e29849d8a342596285e284a1R743-R753

Author: done

| `<MATCH_TYPE>`          | The type of match to apply to the `<METRIC_TO_MATCH>`. Either [`wildcard`](#wildcard-match-pattern) or [`regex`](#regex-match-pattern)    | no, default: `wildcard` |
| `<MAPPED_METRIC_NAME>`  | The new metric name to send to Datadog with the tags defined in the same group.                                                           | yes                     |
| `<TAG_KEY>`             | The Tag key to associate to the tags collected.                                                                                           | no                      |
| `<TAG_VALUE_TO_EXPAND>` | The tags collected from the `<MATCH_TYPE>` to inline.                                                                                     | no                      |

## Wildcard Match Pattern

The wildcard match pattern matches dot-separated metric names using `*` as wildcard. The metric name must be only composed of alphanumeric, `.`, and `_` characters for this pattern to work.
Groups extracted can then be expanded with the `$n` format e.g. `$1`, `$2`, `$3`... or the `${n}` format e.g. `${1}`, `${2}`, `${3}`, ...

> For instance, if you have the metric `custom_metric.value_1.value_2` with the following mapping group configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For instance, if you have the metric `custom_metric.process.value_1.value_2` with the following mapping group configuration:
```

```yaml
dogstatsd_mapper_profiles:
    - name: my_custom_metric_profile
      prefix: custom_metric
      mappings:

>           - match: 'custom_metric.*'

Reviewer: Since 2 wildcards needed since you use $1 and $2. I suggest adding `process` or any metric prefix, more realistic.
```suggestion
          - match: 'custom_metric.process.*..*'
```

            match_type: wildcard

>             name: custom_metric

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            name: custom_metric.process
```

            tags:
                tag_key_1: '$1'
                tag_key_2: '$2'
```

> It would send the metric `custom_metric` to Datadog with the tags `tag_key_1:value_1` and `tag_key_2:value_2`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It would send the metric `custom_metric.process` to Datadog with the tags `tag_key_1:value_1` and `tag_key_2:value_2`.
```

**Note**: If the incoming metric have already at least one tag, no mapping is applied.

## Regex Match Pattern

The regex match pattern matches metric names using regex patterns. Compared to the wildcard match pattern, it allows to define captured groups that contain `.`.
Groups extracted can then be expanded with the `$n` format e.g. `$1`, `$2`, `$3`... or the `${n}` format e.g. `${1}`, `${2}`, `${3}`, ...

For instance, if you have the metric `custom_metric.value_1.value.with.dots._2` with the following mapping group configuration:

```yaml
dogstatsd_mapper_profiles:
    - name: my_custom_metric_profile
      prefix: custom_metric
      mappings:

>           - match: 'custom_metric\.([\w_]+)\.(.+)'

Reviewer: Same here, I think using something with more than just the prefix is better e.g. `custom_metric.process`  (might need update of other occurrences too)
